(1) 6. Parking Lot, Low Level Design (Hindi) | SDE2 Design interview question | Design Parking Lot - YouTube

Transcripts:
(00:00) Hey guys, welcome to Concepts and Coding. So today we are looking at the first question of our low level design system design, design parking lot.  And if you've started with the Design Patterns Solid Principles videos I made before I did this question.  If you have any doubts about them, then I would strongly recommend you to go and watch them once so that when we ask you this question, you can connect the dots properly.  Ok?  Ok.
(00:26)   So without wasting any time, let's start with  how to approach a question whenever it comes to you in an interview.  First thing, prepare a rough flow in your mind and through that rough flow, what do you have to do here ? Requirement gathering has to be done from the interviewer.  And from the requirement clarification I will and at the same time you have to identify all its objects also.
(01:02) Which objects will you use here?  So now what happens in the parking lot is that let's say a vehicle comes here to me at the entrance gate. Ok?  So the first thing he gets here is a parking spot.  Here he gets the ticket. Ticket will be generated for the vehicle here. And I have this parking spot through this ticket.
(01:33)  This is a parking spot.  And then when it will back out of the parking spot.  It exits here.  And he will make the payment here.  And here the vehicle is out. Right?  So generally it lives like this.   The vehicle comes in.  He takes the ticket and parks his vehicle at the parking spot. Right?  And then while leaving he makes the payment and goes out.
(02:09)   So the first thing is how many entrances do we have in our area? How many entrances? So if interval says let's for the simplification also then here I am taking only one entrance exists.  So let's say we are building for one entrance one exit. But the code we create should be scalable.  If in future we have to add another entrance and another exit then we can add that also.
(02:46)   Let us assume that currently the entrance is here and the exit is here.  If I have to put it here, I have to put it here, I have to put it out, then it should be scalable.  So the first one is that we're currently designing one for now.  But our code should be scalable so that I can scale it easily.  Ok?  Second thing.  So what objects have I seen here so far ?  Show me the vehicle.
(03:11) Vehicle is my one object. Ticket is my one object.   The entrance gate is my one object. Parking spot is my one object.  Now while I was doing the parking spot, I noticed another thing.  What are the different types of spots? So here you can clarify that what generally happens is that you will see the candidate at a car, vehicle, bike, different types of spots.
(04:00)   So I would strongly actually different that is also correct. But what I feel is so like two wheeler, so the parking spot is defined according to the wheels, so two wheelers can come in it, it does not matter whether you have a normal bike or a Hardly Davidson and four wheeler, it does not matter whether it is an SUV, whether it is a sedan,  so it does not matter whether it is a four wheeler, okay, so in this way I am defining my parking spots, so we can say that, okay, so for this scope which we are discussing.  So let's say there are
(04:40) two parking spots.  Two wheeler, four wheeler but it should be extensible that in future I have to make parking spots for three wheelers and heavy utility vehicles like trucks etc. So be extensible for that as well. But for this discussion we are keeping a two wheeler and I have to make a parking spot for four wheeler.
(04:59) Ok? Ok?  Now let's go back to the parking spot, our exit.  So here I have another object exit gate. Right?  Now here I am making the payment. So now what are the payment strategies here?  So now here I have to ask one more thing and confirm that when I make the payment, is it early based charge or minute based charge.
(05:39) This also needs to be clarified.  So here we go and say mix it can be both for some parking spot it's early base for some it's mixture like that you can take minutes and some can also go early.  A few minutes of base charge may also be required. Every minute they will charge ₹1, so if you park for 10 minutes then you will pay ₹10 like this for example.
(06:03) Ok?  So here I have more objects.  So what else is there here? Vehicle.  So what am I interested in whenever the vehicle comes ?  Here in vehicle number and vehicle type.  Now what is this type?  This type is an enum. Two wheeler, four wheeler, three wheeler.  This is in them.  Basically I am interested in two things in the vehicle.
(06:32) Right ticket.  What does the ticket contain? I generally have entry time in the ticket. Here it will tell me in which parking spot I have to park.  And what is the price of that parking spot because prices vary for different vehicle types.  Two wheeler parking spots may be priced lower.  There should be higher price for four wheeler parking spots.
(07:02)   So the price details are available inside the parking spot itself. So in the ticket I generally have two things: when did the entry happen and when was it at which parking spot.  Right? And here is the entrance gate.  What will happen at the entrance gate, what is its purpose here ?  Whenever you reach the entrance gate, find parking space.
(07:26)   Its job is to find parking space.  If there is no space then the vehicle should not be given entry. So it should find the parking space and update the parking space and generate ticket. Ok?  So if any vehicle comes to the entrance gate, it has to find a parking space for it and update its parking space.
(07:54)   Because let us assume that earlier there were 10 parking spaces.  If a vehicle arrives, one has to be reduced and a ticket has to be generated and given to it. Parking spot, okay, so what happens to us in the parking spot?  There is an ID, the number of the parking spot and what happens in the parking spot is that let us assume that it is empty, whether it is there or not, which vehicle is parked at that parking spot and what is the price of this parking spot, okay and what is the type of this parking spot, whether it is two wheeler or four wheeler type,
(08:32) this can be information in general, what happens at the exit gate of the parking spot, the functionality of exit grade is that the cost calculation will calculate the cost, whenever he is exiting, I have the entry time and exit current time on the ticket, so in that time it will calculate the cost and take the payment, payment plus update the parking spot will make him free, okay?  So these are all the objects and this is the high level work of all these objects.
(09:18)   Ok? So now let us see whether this is all according to this, now you see this question can be even tougher.  You can ask a follow up question in the interview here that   how well can you make the entrance gate and the parking space here better.  For example, this is an entrance near me and this is an entrance near me.
(09:45)   Ok?  So here's a parking spot I have. Here's a parking spot.  So when I have a vehicle coming from here, it should provide a nearest one.  Don't give it to me here.  Give me the nearest parking space to this entrance gate because my vehicle is coming from here.  If the vehicle is coming from here then give me this nearest entrance nearest parking spot from the entrance gate.
(10:10)   Ok? So this can also be put up in follow up that the parking space you find is make it more efficient that it will give me the nearest parking space.  So let's we will also cover that also.  So here another requirement of yours has been clarified that the parking spot should be nearest to the entrance. And one might ask what floors are there now?   Are there parking floors? So for simplicity recent no.
(10:51)   So right now, there are no floors.  Regarding floors, we can add up that if the second floor comes then I will have to manage all the spots on the second floor also. Okay guys, so this is the very high level.  I  clarified the requirements a bit by creating a rough flow from one flow.  Plus all the objects were identified as to what those objects could be.
(11:11)   There could be more but these are the very things that are required are  objects and what is the function of each object, mostly what operations are to be performed there.  Okay guys?  So let's jump to the next level with our design.  Low level design pay.  Ok?  From here on out I'm implementing first.  So let's start from here now. Ok?  So first of all now I so see there are two approaches.
(11:44)   Here I am writing two approaches.   The first approach is to do it top down. Top to bottom.  Top down means you come from the big entrance or I went to the entrance.  What objects did I need at the entrance ?  So you have made the entrance gate. Then after the entrance, what did you need inside it?  What need arose in him?  So you are coming from top to bottom, starting to end.
(12:16)   Ok?  And one is the bottom to approach. Right?  So what happens in Bottom to Up?  We start from the bottom.  Let's start creating a very basic spot.  Then what does he need?  And then ultimately we go to the parent and define it. We have defined all these small things and the parent will use them there. Ok?  So, from the top down, it is understood that whatever object is required, you are creating it from there through the entrance.
(12:45)   What happened in bottoms up? You have made all the small ones first and then you are making one which is the parent top.  He is already using whatever he needs here. Ok?  So generally I prefer bottom approach.  So I make the smalls first and then use that on top.  So I'm going with the bottom approach.  But if you are comfortable with the top down then you can go with that too.
(13:10) Well then?  What is the first thing I need to know while going from the bottom approach ?  Our parking lot that we are building.  It's a parking spot.  Ok?  So first of all let's create a parking spot.  So here I'm creating a parking spot.  V is a kind of general cars. Ok?  Now in the parking lot, you saw here what all could happen.
(13:40)    You can have your  ID at your place in the parking lot. Ok?  Then here it may be empty. This is bullion. This is integer. What else could happen? What vehicle do we have parked in this parking spot? Vehicle became Vehicle object. Ok?  And then what else could happen?  The price of this parking spot. Price correct.  All these things can happen.
(14:23)    The  operation here is done with variables.  Now what operations can be done here?  Guys, you can define its getter setters here.  So now here at the two parking spots you can do only two things that you can park the vehicle here. Right?  So here you will park it from the vehicle object,  so whenever you park the vehicle, what you will do is that  whatever new vehicle is coming in your vehicle object, park it and make is empty false.
(15:06) Now this has fallen.  So generally this is the park vehicle. Ok?  What else could happen?  Remove vehicle. Remove vehicle.  You need to move your car from this parking spot, so what can we simply do here? Make Vehicle null and Is Empty true.  Because now he is amputee. Ok?  So this became a parking spot.  So Guys for the ease I'm writing empty park vehicle.
(15:45)   So I am removing this implementation. Because in the LLD we don't implement.  But I told you this so that you know what we are doing in Park Vehicle and what we are doing in Remove Vehicle. Ok?  So here I define simple methods for the operations like park vehicle and remove vehicle. Ok?  Now I have the first thing we discussed here?  Parking spot two wheeler and four wheeler.
(16:20)   Ok?  There can be two types of parking spots.  So here I am taking the two wheeler spot. And here I am taking the four wheeler spot. So here mostly park vehicle remove vehicle so the implementation will remain same but what can we differ is the price.  Ok? So here it will implement its price. Let's say it returns 10 and the price for four wheeler at this spot is Let's say it returns 20.
(17:04)   So just an example of what this can be implemented into.  So they can implement the price method, they can overwrite it. Let's say by default price is ₹5 but for two wheeler spot it is 10 for four wheeler spot it is 20.  So It Is Returning 20.  And what is this?  It is a relationship.  It is inheritance, right? Ok?  So our first spot is ready.
(17:29) Now one of its purposes is that if we have to add more spots in the future like handicap spot, then here I can add a high utility vehicle handicap for high utility vehicles, trucks etc. So for that, let's assume that for handicap my price is zero, I will not take any price, for trucks etc. my price return is ₹100, for three wheeler I have to take ₹100, so I can extend it as much as I want, okay, so this is the first thing I have, a parking spot.
(18:01) So here I do parking spots from my object.  I made this a parking spot. Next, do I have the same parking spot? No.  I have one, we said that let's not have a floor.  There is a hall.  So how many parking spots can there be?  There Can Be Thousands of Parking Spots.  Ok?   Let's assume it's out of 1000.
(18:27)   For example, for two wheelers I have 600 and for four wheelers I have 400. Okay, so this is just denoting an individual spot, so what I am creating here is a parking spot manager. All these things will manage this parking spot. Okay, now what will I define inside this parking spot manager? What will be its first thing and functionality ?  So what do I have here?  List of parking spots.
(19:10)   So whose list does he have ?  of parking spot.  So here is the list of its parking spots.  Meaning it has a it has a this is has a relationship. Ok?  And one thing here is what will be the methods after this ?  Now the first thing is this list. Ok?  It could be two wheeler list, four wheeler list.  So, we need different for that.
(19:37)   So, what will the parking spot manager do first? What is his work?  Well then?  Look here what all his works can be.  First of all this list should be dynamic.  So here I am going to create a Parking Spot Manager, which is its constructor. It will take a list, Parking Spot List, and it will automatically initialize its list here with the data  coming from this list.
(20:06) So this will be dynamic.  Now I will tell you how but first let us see its methods.  What are the methods? Ok?  What operations can it perform?  So It Will Help In Finding Parking Space. Find me the parking space.  What else can he do?  Add parking space.   Let's assume I have 1000 vacant parking spaces today.  I have to add 10 more.
(20:37) So I can add you too.  I have to remove it. Some parking spaces are under construction. I have to remove it.  Ok? What will I do here?  Park vehicle. What other operations can be done?  Remove vehicle.  So once I see the parameters inside it that we will use, I will tell you what all we will use. Ok?  So the high level will manage all this.
(21:11) Because it's a manager.  Ok?  So, it will manage the entire one spot that I have to add, find, remove , park, whatever it is, all that will be looked after by the parking spot manager.  Now here I am creating two wheeler manager and here I am creating four wheeler manager.  Why? So, let's assume that out of 1000 spots, I have 600 for two-wheelers and 400 for four-wheelers, so the two- wheeler manager is only responsible for 600 and the four-wheeler manager is only responsible for 400.
(21:58)  So I don't want to mix it up. So, this list of parking spots is of 600 two-wheeler spots and this list of parking spots is of  400. For those 400 parking spots, there are 400 four-wheeler parking spots. Ok?  And you might have noticed that we have the parents that I defined in the constructor. So here its constructor is the constructor of two wheeler manager, whenever it is defined it will call its super and it will send its list.
(22:48) Similarly, this four wheeler is a four wheeler manager constructor.  It will  send its list to its super to the parent that I manage this empty this. If someone is creating my object then I will work on the empty list.  And this is also a relationship.   Did you understand?  In the two wheeler manager and four wheeler manager, the list that is there here, if an object of two wheeler is created then this two wheeler has its own list, so whatever operation will be there like find parking space, if I have an object of two wheeler
(23:27) manager then two wheeler manager object dot at parking space, then whatever it adds in the list will be added in the list of two wheeler, similarly four wheeler will do all these operations on its own and it has as a relationship. Ok?  Now here we talked about finding parking space, I should have the minimum parking spot which should be nearest to the entrance.
(23:59) Ok?  So if you look here, I can extend it further.  Here I can create a parking strategy. Ok?   There could be a parking strategy.  Ok ?  Find parking space.  So let's assume this is the default.  It's a default implementation. It's a default implementation.  That brother, find any one that is free.
(24:27)   But let's assume I have a parking strategy and I have two types of parking strategies.  The first is near the entrance.   The second is near the entrance and elevator.   I might also want mine near the entrance and elevator.  Ok?  And the third one I can take is the default  parking strategy.  So now you will see that I have taken default in the parent class.
(25:08) If you pay attention to the strategy pattern that I discussed, then this strategy pattern is being used.  So here Pay Two Wheeler can tell itself that I am interested in nearest to entrance strategy.  So the one who is passing this list, here it will pass the object of nearest to entrance. It will also send its object.
(25:30)   So let's assume this parking strategy, whose parking strategy is it?  New near to entrance key.  Let's say it has everything a car owner needs, near to Russ and elevator.  So whatever it passes to its parent, it can also pass to its parent in the strategy. What is the parking strategy It is interesting in parking strategy. That this parking strategy is near to elevator.
(25:58) This is the parking strategy.  So when this method will be called find parking space. Ok?  So inside this method of its value let's have a method find.  So what will happen in that is that if I have sent its object near to entrance then its method call will be find. If the strategy I have sent for the four wheeler is near to entrance and elevator, then its object has been sent, so when I call find space here, then its method call will be find space.
(26:34) Ok?  So this way I can incorporate the parking strategy into the strategy dynamically without even changing much of the code.  So here I have tackled this also.  I hope you got it. If you are having doubt in understanding this then I can tell you that this is, if you see the strategy pattern once then you will solve what has happened here.
(26:58) Ok?  That's why this pattern is what you covered earlier before asking a question. So okay, I have a parking spot. Parking spot manager has been created.  Now the first and second thing here is that let us see here that I had taken a vehicle here.  So I will also need a vehicle object. What does the vehicle have?  It's simple.
(27:28)   It has its vehicle number. And there is an enum called Vehicle Type, let's assume it is Vehicle Type, so Vehicle Type is an enum in which let's assume it is two wheeler, four wheeler, if we ever need to  support any other new vehicle type in the future, we can add it up in it. Vehicle type will be supported.
(27:56)   So parking spot has vehicle it has,  right?  So here the vehicle is also our cover up. Now next let's start with our small ticket. So let's go to the ticket now. I am creating a ticket now. What do I need for a ticket?   The first thing I noticed about the ticket was that it should have an entry time. So here I am assuming an entry time.
(28:45)    The ticket will have a vehicle number indicating which vehicle the ticket is assigned to. Vehicle means it has a vehicle so it means it has a. Ok?  And the ticket will also have the information about which parking slot this vehicle has got and here you can write its getter and setters, meaning the ticket also has a parking spot, so what will be there in the ticket, I will have the entry time, which entry time this vehicle has got and which slot it has to go to.
(29:33) Ok?  So here I have also designed my ticket.  Ok?  Now let us see here that we make the entrance gate.  Now next is the entrance gate. So let us now make our entrance gate here.   The entrance is gate class. So first of all let us assume that the vehicle arrives at the entrance gate.
(30:09)   So let's assume at the vehicle entrance gate there is an object which is invoked whenever a vehicle comes then the vehicle object is invoked which has the vehicle number and vehicle type inside it. So what will the entrance gate do now?  What is the first thing you do after passing the entrance gate?  It has to find parking space according to the vehicle type.
(30:28)   It cannot hitch a two-wheeler to a four-wheeler. So, it has to find a parking space. Correct?  This is the first task.  So, who will find me a parking space ?  Parking Spot Manager. How many ways do I have Parkette Spot Manager? Two wheeler, four wheeler.  So, which manager should make that call now?  Now here comes the thing the second design pattern which is known as factory design pattern.
(30:54) Ok?  So what can I do here? What will I do here? One you say that parking manager factory is get parking manager vehicle type on that vehicle type it will return to me object of parking manager. Ok? So if let's assume vehicle type, you can write if else condition or switch condition here. If you have any doubt about how the factory pattern works, then I have made a complete video of factory pattern and abstract factory pattern, you can watch it.
(31:47)   So here on the basis of vehicle type I will check that if the vehicle type is a two wheeler then I will send the object of two wheeler manager here. If the vehicle type is four then I will  send the object of four wheeler manager here.  Right?  So the factory pattern is so  at least I do it here.  So it would be easy for this.
(32:15)   So let me have this class defined over here.   So here I'm taking parking spot factory. Please ignore the name a little because there is a little more space issue. What is this here?  Get parking spot manager and I'm going to have a vehicle object come in here in the pay input.  On that vehicle type, on the basis of vehicle type, on vehicle type basis I would return parking spot manager object.
(33:03) Okay, so I will have this method call and the vehicle type that we have seen, two wheeler, four wheeler, on that basis I will either return two wheeler manager object if it is a two wheeler.  If it is a four wheeler then I will return a four wheeler object.  So means factory pattern has parking spot manager.
(33:28)   And this entrance,  this entrance, it has factory. So he called the factory.  The factory called the spot manager.  The object returned to this. Ok?  So now what else is needed in the entrance ?  So first of all what was there for me here? Here I had the Parking Spot Factory object.   First of all in the entrance, now I will have a manager coming to me from the factory object.
(34:05) Two wheeler manager, four wheeler manager which is nothing but a parking spot manager.  So I also have an object of this parking spot manager. Ok?  Ok.  So what operations will I do now ?  I have to first find space.   On what basis do I have to find space? Vehicle Type Pay. So I had the parking space manager come to me.
(34:32) I will call the parking space manager to find a space.  So here I will call find parking space.  And here I will pass the vehicle type.  So vehicle type here, let's assume, was the object of parking space manager.  This was a two wheeler.  So this will be the object call of two wheeler. So it will send its already list and send its parking strategy as to which partner strategy I have.
(34:59)   So on that basis it will find free parking space. So guys, you can discuss the logic behind the list of find parking space here. So if we go deep into the interview here, you can use heap that depending upon this strategy, I need the nearest to nearest two entrances, so for each entrance, let's assume I have five entrances, entrance two, entrance three, entrance four, I can make a min heap of each, so whatever entrance comes to me, I will pick it from the top of the min heap and after removing it, I can take a separate one, so it is
(35:36) mostly an implementation that you can discuss how you will implement it. Right?  If I want nearest to entrance then I will make a mean of parking slots for each entrance and will always take it from the top. Ok?  So that is more the internal part of how you can make it efficient. Ok?  Which data structure?  This is one of the data structures.
(36:02)   You can use heap for each entrance gate.  So definitely for parking space you not only need vehicle you also need to pass the entrance gate number because if I have to find the strategy which is nearest to the entrance then it will help me in that strategy, find the  space near this entrance gate number. Ok?  I found space. What to do with it after finding the space? What will the gate do at the entrance gate?  Book a spot, so this same spot manager will call park vehicle for whatever it is, two wheeler, four wheeler, and will create vehicle pass object here, will
(36:48)  pass vehicle object here and what will come after this is generate ticket, so what will it do in generate ticket, it will pass the vehicle plus the spot which has come to me, that parking spot will also be sent to the ticket.  Ok?  So the generated ticket will be in its getter setter.
(37:12)   So what will this do?   The entry time will set the current time.   The vehicle that has been sent to me and the parking slot that this manager has given me by spotting the parking slot books, I will set that in the ticket.  So means entrance gate has ticket object also. Because I have to call the ticket object also.  So it has come correct, I understood guys, whenever a vehicle comes, first the space will have to be found, I will find the space, okay, first from the factory pattern, which spot manager is there, according to the vehicle type, which vehicle is
(37:49) coming, okay, I will take its object accordingly, after that object, I will find the space, I got the space from the vehicle number, vehicle type, entrance gate, okay and when I park the vehicle, then the parked vehicle should take care of updating the list also that it will remove it and update it. Ok?  Internally and then the generator will generate the ticket there.
(38:13)   Ok?  This one has arrived yet.  So here we have also made an entrance gate.  Had also made the ticket. The entrance was also made.  Now how many entrances are there here?  So we'll see if there's one right now.  This is the type of spot two wheeler we have covered up. Now we have to do this early based charge cover up.  So now let's see the exit gate.
(38:36)   This is also very important and see what we are doing here.  Now I am making the exit gate. What happens at the exit gate?   The first thing he will have at the exit gate is a ticket.  Ok?  So its entry time from the ticket so first of all this I have a class cost computation cost computation. So let's say here I have one for two wheeler.
(39:21) Two wheeler cost computation and here is four wheeler cost computation both are its children. Now here again I am making a strategy.  Pricing strategy. Pricing strategy. Ok?  So here I can write a default strategy that  what can be my strategy on early basis  and you can say default, default is not done early.
(40:09)   Let's make the default that the fixed price is my fixed price, which is always return ₹20, brother, any pricing strategy, give only ₹20, whether you do it for one hour or two hours or for the whole day, return the price, whatever the price is, that is not returned, return the parking spot dot price, so whatever the parking spot price, return its price without taking care of the minutes.
(40:41)   Now there is an early prying strategy.  So when it calculates its price.  Ok?  So this is not the default here. Let us assume here that this is the price method. What will he do when he is on early?  He will check whether he will get the ticket.  Ok? Here is the ticket.  So when he got the ticket, he wanted the ticket here.
(41:16) Let me create space. So he has the ticket here. Ok?  And it has a choice of which spots it's removing for.  So now the ticket is here and here is the parking spot next to it.  Which spot would you take? This I Think parking spot is also within the I Think Ticket. Right?  We have. We also have parking slots inside the ticket.
(41:42)   So here I actually do not need any other variable.  Ok?   So here I got the ticket.  So what I did from here is that the entry time and current time of the ticket.  So, how many hours should I calculate?   The   price of the parking slot calculated in hours. Ok?  Similarly I can have another prying strategy that is minute wise prying strategy.
(42:20) Ok?  So when his price method is called and when I get the ticket, what he can do is he will get the current time.  Current time minus ticket dot entry time.  So whatever the number of minutes, minute wise minutes in a like whatever the price of the spot sum calculation sum business logic will calculate it minute wise.
(42:45) I hope you got it that we can have different strategies like early basis, minute basis or fixed price no matter what you stand for the whole day. Only its price will be charged here on the ticket. Ok?  So here I have a two wheeler, a four wheeler or a three wheeler in the future.  Ok?  So what strategy is it using?  Ok?  So let's assume that here is the two wheeler cost computation.
(43:16) This is telling its parent that I am using early Harley pricing strategy. He sent its object.  What is Four Wheeler  doing Four Wheeler Cost Computation?  He is saying that he is calling his parent, his super and saying that I use it minute wise.   It  sent the object of minute wise prying strategy.  This is an object.
(43:42)   Ok ?  Similarly, in the future, if someone else uses it early, he will do it.  So now here the price computation will happen when I send its object on a hard basis, so whenever the object goes, whenever its object calls the price computation and sends the ticket, then this method will be invoked respectively.
(44:07)   Ok?  So here I have the object of prying strategy. So means it has. Ok?  So this is the object of pricing strategy, whenever there is a price call on this object, it will either be an early call or a minute call.  And who is telling whether it should be an early call or a minute call.  This child two wheeler is saying that there should be an early call.
(44:32)   The four wheeler is saying that it should be a minute call. Ok?  So what do the exit gasses have in the first place ?  Cost computation.  He has a ticket. It has the object of cost computation.  Ok?  So now this is the object of cost computation. So is this object a two wheeler or a four wheeler.
(44:56)   That also we can identify from a factory. So I can create a cost computation factory here.  Ok?  I have a ticket here.  Ok?  I have a ticket.  I have the vehicle from inside the ticket. Vehicle is inside the ticket. I can object the vehicle from the vehicle type here, from the vehicle type here, I can object the same two wheeler or four wheeler.
(45:21)   So vehicle type basis return cost computation object whether two wheeler or four wheeler. Ok?  So the exit gate calls the factory.  To the cost computation factory.  The cost computation factory will call it to return the object.  And when the object comes near it.  Ok?   The object will either come to it or it will be based upon the factory.
(45:57) What is the factory returning?  Ok? So what this will do is call the price method of the object here.  So  what are the functions it has here?  Price calculation near the exit.  So this will call the price calculation through the object method and it will calculate and get the price. Second, he has to make the payment here.
(46:30) So now you can make payments here also. Payment, Cash Payment, Credit Card Payment, Different Payments.  So its object can be created.  So I will not go too deep into the payment.  It's the same that here you take the payment and here   what type of cash payment or card payment has been made?  So that's it. So here the payment object will be there.
(46:54) Here there will be a payment object  whether it is cash payment or card payment.   On that basis, when the payment comes, it means that here this object of payment is being kept, it has a, so whatever payment I have, whether it is cash payment or card payment, whatever method is being used for making the payment, then whenever I call its payment method, then going to that particular, it will record the payment there in that proper manner.
(47:23) Maybe when I make a payment in credit card, it will make an entry in the credit card table. Hope that save entry here.  If I cache, save the data in a cache table. Ok?  That the payment has been made here.  Ok ?  Now one more thing is left here, lastly  I did the cost computation of the ticket that I had at the exit gate.
(47:49)   Ok ?  And here I have done the cost computation. The payment has been made.  Now one thing is that parking spot is also becoming free.  It is happening or not happening.  Ok?  So here I also need a parking spot manager. Correct?  So here I also need a parking spot manager.  I need an object for that too.
(48:18)   And here I will also place this object of parking spot manager. Which is again it can use factory only.  So basis on the vehicle type.  I have a ticket. Vehicle type can be found on the ticket.  So it will be two wheeler or four wheeler and what to do with it?  Remove vehicle.  So, it will call a method here called removeVehicle.
(48:42) Ok? So, it will also be called factory. So it has the manager object.  Plus there is also the factory object. Whose?  Parking Spot Manager Factory. Ok? So guys, this is a very high level thing. So, look, there can be so many use cases.  Let me tell you once again that we started from a very basic parking spot. What could be near the parking spot?  He may have an ID that will tell whether it is empty or not.
(49:21) Vehicle price and it has basic functions like park, remove.  Ok?  How many types of parking spots are there, two wheeler, four wheeler and you can also increase them in future. Ok?  So there in a parking lot there could be many parking spots.  So here I have maintained the list. Ok?  And here I have appointed two managers.
(49:44)   There was one manager and there are two of them, one is a two wheeler manager and the other is a four wheeler manager.  Similarly, in the future they will manage their own parking spots. How do they want to manage it? Ok?  Find parking space which is a method, all of them are maintaining their own list.  They are  maintaining a list of their spots and sending it to their parents.
(50:03) Ok?  In Find Parking Space, we discussed that here one can find parking space or take it for free anywhere in the normal way.  One could be the nearest to entrance and also be the nearest to the elevator.  One may be the default one that can be found anywhere.  So I can also define this because of my manager that the two wheeler manager needs nearest to entrance.
(50:28)   So he will send his list to his parent plus send the strategy.  Ok?  Four wheeler will send their list plus send strategy that I am interested in near to entrance and elevator strategy.  So here when he calls the object, the find space of that particular will be called here. Ok?  So means this parking spot manager has parking strategy.
(51:01) Ok?  Now I have the parking spot manager. Now in this you will see that there is an entrance gate and an exit gate.  Both of these have to be managed.  So here, if I get a two-wheeler, then it needs a two-wheeler manager.  If a four-wheeler arrives, a four-wheeler manager is needed.  So this helps me in the factory.
(51:18)   So based on the vehicle whether I have a vehicle type. I will return an object of that type. Two wheeler here and four wheeler here. So here's where I used the factory pattern. P.S. Parking Spot Factory.  Then I created a Vehicle object.  Created a ticket. Simple entry time vehicle parking slot is inside the ticket.
(51:36)   Inside the vehicle is the vehicle number and vehicle type. Here inside the entrance gate, I told you what was the use of the factory, whether I needed a two-wheeler manager or a four- wheeler manager.  And because of that I will get the object of two wheeler or four wheeler.  What will I do first?   I will find space.
(51:55)   So whenever find space is called then find space of specific object will be called. Ok?  I found the space, I booked the spot, so the same spot will be booked, park the vehicle and here I will generate the ticket.  Ok ?  What is the exit gate doing?  It also has a factory.  So it also called the factory and brought the two wheeler and four wheeler objects of the parking spot manager here and whenever it was exiting, it called remove vehicle.
(52:25)   This one is a remove vehicle. What else needs to be done after removing the vehicle?  Price computation has to be done.  So here we have created a separate strategy for the pay price, whereas some people use the early strategy. Some use minute strategies.  One can use the default strategy.  So here which vehicle type is using which type of strategy.
(52:49)   Let's assume that he is using the two wheeler early.  Four wheeler is using minutes.  Three wheeler is using default.  So we can define the strategy.  When the price is computed , when this price method is called, the price method of their specific strategy will be called. Ok?  So here and based upon the vehicle type, whether I need a two wheeler or a four wheeler, I can take that also for cost computation.
(53:14) So it that's why it has an object for CC factory also.  And finally payment.  Correct?  There is card payment, there is cash payment. It is also a record of a payment.  Cash payment, card payment, it is a very big payment inside itself.  So, at a very high level, let's say that the payment here is cash payment.
(53:37)   And when its payment method is called, it will record the cash payment.  This is a card payment. Whenever the card method is called, it will record your card payment.  So here we are just calling out how he wants to make the payment.   Done guys. So I have covered everything here. Ok?  The exit gate is also covered here.
(54:01)   Ok?  Early based is also all covered.  Let's assume that you had asked at the end that I want to increase the entrance. Ok?  So you will already see that the parking strategy I have is entrance wise, that is, I am sending the entrance here also.  Correct that there is parking space. I am also sending the entrance here to find the parking space.
(54:22)   I am passing the entrance also.  So here I am keeping the entry wise min heap.  Ok ?  The only thing I need is an entrance manager.  That if we assume that I have five entrances.  Then one of the five entrances should be closed, leaving four.  Then I add one, add two, it becomes six.  So some manager needed.
(54:39)   So same concept of parking spot manager we need some entrance gate manager.  But for this discussion, their flow will be one entrance gate, one exit gate. I hope it will be quite clear to you.  In a parking lot in a low level design.  There are other ways to do this because this is system design.  Every person, every candidate has a different way of designing the system.
(55:03)   So this system design is based on my experience, my logic of design patterns, my logic of SOLID principles.  And I think if someone tells me in the future that I need to add a floor , I can simply add a floor without disturbing the whole code.  Ok?  I have to define the strategy according to the entrance. I can add a strategy also.
(55:22) Parking strategy.  Ok?  I want to change the price.  I can simply change a price without disturbing any code.  Ok ?  I can simply add new.  So, I have explained to you in detail that if I had prepared for this question in the interview, how would I have approached it, starting from the rough.  I hope if you know the parking lot interview question then it has been asked in any top biggest company like Amazon.
(55:49) Right?  So you prepare it well and burst it in a very dangerous manner.  So best of luck guys.  I hope for the best and have a nice day.
